now the US President says his country's
support for Israel is Rock Solid and
unwavering let's go live to John henen
in Washington DC so what or can you tell
us about what US officials are saying at
this
point well it's the we hours of Sunday
morning and in a few hours people from
the administration members of Congress
will be on the Sunday talk shows and we
can expect more of what we've heard for
the past 24 hours and that has been the
stern condemnation from both Democrats
and Republicans of the Hamas attack and
support for Israel that's what we've
heard from everybody from the Democratic
mayor of New York to republicans in
Congress to President Biden himself and
his administration has been busy uh
trying to deescalate that situation
they've done so by sending a secretary
of state Anthony blinkin to the phones
he has been calling his counterparts in
the Middle East and North Africa and
trying to get anyone who can influence
Hamas to try to deescalate that conflict
uh Biden has not always agreed with
Benjamin Netanyahu the prime minister of
Israel but on this occasion all he had
to say was strict support for
Israel Israel has the right to defend
itself and its people full
stop there's never justification for
terrorist attacks and my
administration's support for Israel's
security is Rock Solid and un wavering
let me say this as clearly as I can this
is not a moment for any party hostile to
Israel to exploit these attacks to seek
Advantage the world is
watching both Democrats and Republicans
on Capitol Hill have talked about
increasing military aid to Israel Israel
already gets $3.3 billion that was in
the past year by far more than any other
country from the United States in
military aid and there's talk of more uh
the problem with that is that Congress
is in complete disarray not just because
Republicans control the house and
Democrats control the Senate but because
the Republicans are without a speaker at
the moment and without a Speaker of the
House of Representatives they can't
really do business and they won't come
back to elect a speaker until Wednesday
so right now although there is rather
widespread support for increasing
funding for Israel that's not likely to
happen soon that could take some time
all right thanks so much John
hendin meanwhile in the occupied West